the versatility of the magnetostrictive
tip design is illustrated in the next
several video clips because all sides of
the magnetostrictive tip are active the
clinician can use two distinct
approaches to instrumentation based on
the surface of the insert which is
adapted to the tooth
in this first clip the clinician chooses
to adapt the lateral surface of the
swivel direct flow right insert to the
buckle and interproximal surfaces in the
upper right quadrant this approach is
similar to the placement of a
traditional hand instrument
notice how the swivel insert is easily
rotated in the fingertips ensuring that
the lateral surface of the insert
maintains proper adaptation to the two
surface for efficient scaling results
in the second clip the clinician chooses
to adapt the Swivl direct flow left
insert in the same region of the mouth
in this sequence however the back or
convex surface of the insert is adapted
to the teeth rather than the lateral
surface observe how the convex surface
of the insert maintains contact with the
tooth as the clinician de bride's the
interproximal tooth surface with
magnetostrictive inserts more vibration
is produced on the convex surface than
the lateral sides of the insert
therefore adapting the convex surface
will improve deposit removal either
technique is acceptable when using a
magnetostrictive insert allowing the
clinician the versatility to modify
adaptation of the insert to meet the
clinical situation regardless of the
technique the clinician should always
select the lowest effective power
setting use light lateral pressure and
strive to maintain a tip to tooth
angulation from 0 to 15 degrees during
treatment